Network Layer is Layer 3 in osi model for logical addressing,routing and forwarding data packets between devices across differnet networks.
Several protocal are handled in the layer3
In Layer 3 IP have 2 versions:
IPv4: 32-bit addresses and providing foundation for communication on the internet seperated by .
IPv6: 128-bit addresses and offers and exponentially larger address space hexadecimal notation seperated by collumn :
ICMP:used for error reporting and diagnostics,messages ping(echo requests and echo reply),traceroute and various error messages

IP Functionality:
Logical Address:
These addresses are uniquely identify each device over the network.These are assigned to network interfaces.
These are Hierarchical and structured based on network classes,subnets, and CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) notation.

Packet Structure:
Ip organizes data into packets for transmission acreoss networks.Each Packet consists of a header and payload.
The header contains essential info including the source and dest ip addr,version number,ttl and protocol type.

Fragmentation and Reassembly:
ip allows fragmentation of large packets into smaller fragments when traversing networks with varying MTU sizes.
The reciever reassembles these fragments to reconstruct the orginal packet.

Ip Address types:
3 types: 
unicast (one-to-one)
broadcast (one to-all within a subnet)
multicast (one-to-many)

subnetting:
it is a technique that devides a larger ip network into smaller or more manageable sub-networks.

ICMP:
it is used for error reporting and diagnostics. also include echo request and echo reply

DHCP:
assign ip dynamically using DORA Process and simplify the process of network configuration.

Ip header contains:
"Source address" + "Destination address" + "TTL" + "Type 0f service (TOS)" + "protocol"

TOS: contains 8 bit binary value that is used to determine the priority of each packet

#IP header Analysis:
Install wireshark and analyze the network 
and you can see and analyzes the network

Transport Layer:
The transport layer is fourth layer in osi model,it ensure end -to -end communication handling tasks such as error detection flow control and segmentation of data into smaller units.
TCP 
UDP
0-1023 are reserverd and well-known ports 
1024-49151 are registered for spercific services or applications
